In this video I'll be explaining VSD for data protection and how it can be used as a backup solution
for your virtual machines for data protection is a Virtual Machine backup solution that is completely
integrated with the sphere.
It's managed using the vees fair web client.
Now we have to deploy a virtual machine called the VSE for data protection appliance.
And this is a pre-built prepackaged Linux virtual machine that will use to manage vse for data protection
we'll set up backup jobs for virtual machines and after those VMs are initially backed up only the change
two blocks are copied.
Moving forward.
So we can do incremental backups.
It provides virtual machine protection as well as file level protection.
If we install and in guest agent and we can also do application where backups for sequel's Sharepoint
in exchange if that guest agent is installed.
This is a new feature for VSE for data protection.
These applications are where backups used to only be available in a product called Vee's for data protection
advanced.
Now all of the features of these for data protection Advanced have been rolled into the VSE for data
protection product which is free with VSE for.
So we have to deploy the VSE fear and data protection appliance which is a pre-built Linux based virtual
appliance we can deploy up to 20 of these virtual appliances per pervy center instance and by default
they are equipped with 4 gigs of memory and for virtual C-p use each Vee's for data protection appliance
supports a maximum of 8 terabytes of backup data per appliance which on average is 150 to 200 virtual
machines.
These for data protection is compatible with VSE VM FS and NFZ data stores.
So let's take a look and an example back up job and we'll also take a look at a screenshot of a retention
policy.
So the first step is to pick out what we want to back up which can be either a virtual machine or a
container object such as resource pool.
Then we can schedule the frequency of the backup job.
How often do we want backups to occur.
And in a moment I'll show you a screen shot of a potential retention policy that we can configure.
But before I show you that a few other options on the backup job that we can configure is replication
we can replicate backed up data using these for data protection to either another Vee's for data protection
appliance or even to EMC Avatar's solution.
Any of this replicated data is compressed and encrypted and once we've created a backup job we can clone
it and this will make it easy to configure future backup jobs with a matching retention policy.
So here we see our retention policy and this is a good example of a fairly typical retention policy
where we're going to save a certain number of daily backups a certain number of backups for weeks a
certain number of monthly backups in a certain number of annual backups
piece for data protection does allow us to perform application backups of sequel Exchange and SharePoint
in order to do this we need to install the VSD for data protection application agents in the guest operating
system and the job of this agent is to ensure that the data is in an application consistent state prior
to backing that data up and may need to commit certain transaction logs to prepare those particular
applications for backup.
It supports sequel server Klosters and Exchange Server database availability groups and it can also
be installed on physical exchange sequel and Sharepoint servers as well.
Now we don't just have the ability to do VM level backups we can also restore individual files and folders.
However this does require a client installation on the guest operating system and once we've taken these
backups.
A web based client can be used to perform these resource.
As a matter of fact we can even give our end users access to a simple web interface so that they can
perform their own self-service restores files can be restored to the original location or we can choose
a different folder to place them in.
So in review these for data protection provides backup and recovery for virtual machines.
It's completely integrated into vse fair and is managed using the VSE for web client the VSE for data
protection appliance is required and only changed blocks are backed up.
We have incremental backups once a complete backup of a VM is performed each time the backup window
arrives.
The change to blocks are backed up and saved to a duplicated backup data location.
These are data protection provides virtual machine and file level rephrase
vse for data protection provides virtual machine and file level protection.
The file level protection however does require the installation of unguessed agent.
So do application aware backups for sequel.
SharePoint and Exchange.